---
title: 'General Updates and Sundry Thoughts - February 2025'
pubDate: 2025-02-27
description: 'Update for February 2025'
author: 'Garrett Pierce'
tags: [ "blogging", "bullet journaling"]
image: {
    url: "",
    alt: ""
}
---
# General Updates and Sundry Thoughts - February 2025
I’ve decided I want to do a monthly reflection, and this is the first entry in what will hopefully be an illuminating series. 

## Bullet Journaling
Following on from my last post, I'm happy to report bullet journaling is going well still, and I'm finding it very useful. I feel like I have accomplished a lot more in the past month and been way more on top of my stuff, and it has me feeling really good overall. I have days where I journal a lot and days where I journal just a little, but that, combined  with a planner, has really added a lot to my life.

## Work
I have been experimenting with using different web development frameworks in Microsoft’s Power Pages, and made some [exciting discoveries](https://github.com/gfpierce/Power-Pages-Framework-Experiments). As a result, I have become a pretty big fan of [Alpine.JS](https://alpinejs.dev/), as it works super well in Power Pages. I also found that Vue works in Power Pages to an extent, and that has gotten me more interested in learning Vue as well, both for work and for personal projects.

## PHP + Laravel
In my free time, I’ve started learning PHP! I don’t remember what got me interested, but I decided I really wanted to learn Laravel in order to build an app idea that I’ve had in mind for a while, so I’ve started diving in to PHP. I have found the crew over at [Laracasts](https://laracasts.com/) to be excellent educators so far, and I’ve been having fun in my first few hours in PHP.

## Reading
I started and stopped a number of books this month, and didn’t finish any. 

### Bullet Journal
I started the month by reading Ryder Carroll’s book on bullet journaling. I liked it a lot, and flew through it on my Kindle. I got up to a section in the book where he basically says “everything after this point should be read after you’ve been bullet journaling for a few months.” So I stopped there, as I had only started bullet journaling a few days prior.

### Fourth Wing
I also started reading Fourth Wing by Rebecca Yarros, one of my girlfriend’s favorite books. The third book in the series came out last month and I decided to see what all the hype was about. I had also been in a speculative sci fi mode for a while and decided to do something a little different after that. I’ve been liking it, but I haven’t been moving very fast through it.

### The Practice: Shipping Creative Work
Inspired by [Josh Scott on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=axfCrOhK8pY), I started reading The Practice by Seth Godin. I’m not 100% sure what to make of it, and I’m only about 60 pages in. It’s a bunch of little anecdotes strung together into a book, so it reads in a kind of disjointed way, and a lot of it feels very similar to each other. I feel like the author repeats himself a lot.

That said, I have found it somewhat inspiring for my creative pursuits, and I’ll continue to drop into it from time to time as I feel I need some inspiration.

### Selected Stories of Philip K. Dick
Like many people, I have been obsessed with Severance lately. I wanted to read something that fit a similar vibe, so I jumped into a few short stories by Philip K. Dick, which scratched the itch.

### The Baseball 100
This has mostly been a “going to bed” read, where I’ll go through a few pages as I’m checking in for the night, usually falling asleep after about 5 pages. It’s a great read, though, and I’d recommend it to anyone interested in baseball history.

### Hypermedia Systems
I was obsessed with HTMX for about a day and a half. I read 20 pages of the book. Decided it was really smart but I didn’t need to read 500 pages on the subject.

### Mood Machine
This is the most recent read of the month, and the one I’m most interested in so far. I’ve been on a bit of a non-fiction kick lately, and as someone who is passionate about music, I have long been interested in Spotify’s impact on the industry. I’m not too deep into the book yet though, so expect more in next month’s post.

## In Conclusion…
I think that’s all for this month! Thanks for reading.
